## Encrypted and unencrypted traffic

The traffic generated by services is classified into encrypted traffic and clear traffic. Clear (unencrypted) traffic can be interpreted and understood if captured. Encrypted traffic cannot be interpreted in the absence of the encryption key; only the transmitter and receiver know the key in order to communicate.

We propose to analyze, from the point of view of traffic encryption, the following protocols/services:

* `telnet` (TCP port 23)
* `SSH` (TCP port 22)
* `FTP` (TCP port 21)

We will use `tcpdump`, a utility with which we can capture packets passing through a specific server, to display the transmitted data (password). We will use the laboratory topology and connect from the `red` station to the `green` station via the `host` station.

To start the capture process, log in as `root` on the `host` station and run the command

```shell-session
root@host:~# tcpdump -vvv -A -i usernet
```

For telnet communication, run the command

```shell-session
root@red:~# telnet green
```

After running the command, you have established a telnet connection from the `red` station to the `green` station via the `host` station. At the prompt generated by the command
- use the username `student` and the password `student`
- run the `ls` command
- run the `exit` command to close the connection

Observe on the `host` station the capture of the credentials (username and password) transmitted via telnet between the `red` and `green` stations ⇒ the telnet traffic between the two stations was unencrypted traffic and was captured on the `host` station.

For FTP communication, run the command

```shell-session
root@red:~# ftp green
```

After running the command, you have established an FTP connection from the `red` station to the `green` station via the `host` station. At the prompt generated by the command:
- use the username `student` and the password `student`
- run the `ls` command
- run the `quit` command to close the connection

Observe on the `host` station the capture of the credentials (username and password) transmitted via FTP between the `red` and `green` stations ⇒ the FTP traffic between the two stations was unencrypted traffic and was captured on the `host` station.

For communication via SSH, run the command

```shell-session
root@red:~# ssh -l student green
```

After running the command, you have established an SSH connection from the `red` station to the `green` station via the host station. In the remote shell session opened:
- run the `ls` command
- run the `exit` command to close the connection.

Notice that on the `host` station, tcpdump does not display information in the clear, the SSH traffic between the two stations being encrypted and transmitted in a binary format.

On the `host` station, to stop the `tcpdump` command, use the Ctrl+c key combination.

Telnet and FTP traffic is unencrypted, while SSH traffic is encrypted.
